All right, so how do we start?
What do you guys think is slow?
Can anyone give me like a guess?
>> Creating objects.
>> Okay,
creating objects I love that by the way.
That's like my favorite.
That's the thing I love to
harp on creating objects.
What objects?
>> JavaScript objects.
>> All right, JavaScript objects.
Yes, they are not fast to
create JavaScript objects.
Any other guesses?
>> Network.
We're trying to improve JavaScript, so
we're gonna pretend
the network is unimprovable.
Meaning that we have a WebSocket
connection, and so we're not gonna worry
about the latency of the user,
cuz we don't have a control over that.
We want to only control what
we can control right now.
So we'll just keep that.
We're not like thinking
about edge deploying and
how we get servers closest to groups of
people are organizing web sockets with
relation to where they're coming in.
So we're just not gonna think
about that level of speed.
>> Promises.
>> Promises, okay, beautiful, beautiful.
It's like you guys know me all right, yes,
objects and
problems is both great answers.
So usually the best way to find
out what is slow is to measure.
So I highly recommend you don't guess but
instead we measure, right?
That will give you the best answer.
So a couple things, don't forget to change
your U limit because at some point you
will exceed 1024, which is the default
on Pop OS or whatever your OS is.
And then you'll get a bunch of errors
trying to create a bunch of test clients.
So just remember that, adjust your U
limit so you can have lots of files open.
First thing we're gonna do is actually
look at a little utility I've made
to help kind of visualize
what's happening on our server.
And so to be able to launch this,
it requires three separate terminal tabs.
[INAUDIBLE] there we go,
I'll open that up next, okay?
So CD shooter and then we need to launch
the program that actually runs the server.
Then we're gonna do it again,
where we actually are gonna launch
something to launch the client.
And we're gonna do it one more time
to something that actually launches
the kind of perf server
that looks at the logs and
tells you what's happening
inside of the server.
Okay, so the first one,
we're just gonna build node with TSC.
Yes, I didn't make a watch command, okay?
Cuz I don't wanna keep on running
just wanna running some of the times.
So Okay, and so TSC and then node dist
server.js and we're gonna set a log path,
this is where it puts all the logs.
It's gonna log things that are happening
on your server into this file.
So I'm just gonna copy this command and
this will launch the server.
So I'm gonna go here and
if it doesn't launch for you, I'm sorry,
it worked on my machine.
All right, awesome.
Next, we're gonna want to launch this.
This is a simple rust program that does
the following a we run in release mode.
Second, we're gonna have 500
connections created to the server.
Third, we're gonna play
a whole bunch of games.
I set it out to play a whole bunch,
so it can just keep on running.
And then this T right here
is time between connections.
So a connection will be created to
the server every two milliseconds.
So that way we have a better distribution
of connections as opposed to make
500 at once, lose 500,
make 500 at once, lose 500.
So at least these 500 will be
created over the course of a second,
as opposed to all at once.
So copy that and here, I don't like it.
Actually right there.
Let's do the original one.
I'm gonna make sure I have the exact
same command as you guys grab that,
put that there, and
then we'll start the client.
Yeah, the client there we go,
the little testing client will run rust.
So it's gonna just start running.
It's just gonna start Start running
against the server my computer will start
going making sounds all that fantastic.
And then we'll have this whole visual
server which this one's written in.
Go with HTML, by the way.
It was like the first time I was
playing around with go and HTML, so
it's kind of a largely ugly.
So enjoy all you want.
And so I'm gonna go over here I'm
just gonna run this command that'll.
Create a nice little echo server for 2068.
And so if you go there, you'll be able
to see what's happening on the server.
So I'm gonna jump over here, I'm gonna go
to localhost 420, sorry, this tiny font,
420.68.
Pretty simple.
You're gonna simply pass in a file
that we specified as our log path.
So our log path right here
was temp slash testing.
So I'm gonna go Temp testing and
that's gonna tell you all about it.
Now typically I actually like to have this
thing kind of split right here just makes
it a little bit easier to see on this page
as you can see right now we've played
about 500 games.
We have this ratio find
that here in a second.
We have about a million on time ticks
meaning 1516 or 17 on time ticks.
We have about 400,000 ticks
that went over that went 18 or
more milliseconds, and we have
about 67,000 ticks that were under.
So if I refresh this again,
it continues this way the ratio is
simply under plus over on top of
the sum of all possible ticks.
So what percentage of
ticks are over plus under?
And so 31% of the time we
are not behaving correctly.
So this isn't a good place to be.
I'm not happy about it.
Your boss is probably not happy about it.
Whatever number you're getting is probably
different than the number I'm getting
getting, and that's okay.
Then also you can look at like say
the distribution of the interval as
you can see, we have a lot of 16 and
17s, we also have a lot of 18s.
We also have a lot of 15s.
We have some 19s.
We have some 14s, and you see that
it kind of goes out a little bit.
There's some unusual ones way out here.
There's 1767 milliseconds to
take ticks that happened.
And so things are happening
obviously On here so, there you go.
So this is one way in which we
can look at performance and
we can watch this happen over time.
And so what I'm gonna do is I'm actually
gonna cut this and I'm gonna cut that and
I'm gonna cut my, both my client and
my server for a second.
And I want to run a few of them.
And so, what we're gonna do is I want you
to name it in such a way you're not gonna
lose it, so you could do it like temp,
master 500, 1,000, 1,500.
However you want to do it, but
let's try running on your own your numbers
may be a little bit different than mine.
Just choose three numbers that are
progressively larger and we're gonna kind
of look at each performance as it goes and
maybe see how does this the server react?
And you're gonna keep running with
the same number of connections as we make
these improvements and
see do we make it have less or more?
And we'll be able to look
at this data in the past.
So I'm gonna just start right here and
I will simply run this thing
as I don't like to type.
So I'm just gonna do master 500,
there we go.
And we'll run this thing [INAUDIBLE] wrong
window I like to run it in this window.
I have OCD about which
windows I like to run things?
And so this will run the server,
then I'll run the client.
I'll make sure I'm doing 500 connections,
and we're gonna run this one.
So this one's gonna collect information.
We'll let this one go for a little bit.
So I'm gonna replace this right
here with a [INAUDIBLE] 500,
I let this go until we get like
maybe 1 to 2 million tics, and
then I'll repeat it again with 1,000,
then I'll repeat it again with 2000.
We'll see how it goes.
Probably go to about how about 1000
games played, two rounds of it.
There you go, we're up to after that.
So I'm just gonna kill that.
I'm gonna kill both the client or
the server and the client and
I'm gonna do it again, except for
this time I'm gonna do 1000.
Be careful if you run the same log file
twice, you're gonna get mixed results.
So careful with that.
So I'm gonna run it at a 1000.
There we go.
I'm gonna go over here.
I'm gonna rerun this one, but I'm gonna
make sure I put my 1 value as 1000.
All right, so now, when we run the server,
we're running it with 1000 connections.
One big thing about running
a lot of perf up, look at that.
I didn't even listen to myself.
I'd even set my own you
limits to be proper here.
Look at that I got had by my own
problem that I warned you about.
It says right there, too many files open.
Just feels so bad.
All right,
I'm gonna remove my previous log file, and
I'll run it again, start that up,
start a nice, fresh, clean run here,
because I don't want that to be
a part of things, and then run this.
And so
now we're gonna let that thing run, and
I'm gonna open up a new tab, and
I'm gonna change this out to 1000.
And so we can kind of start
seeing this thing run nicely.
As you can see, it's looking a lot worse.
And my laptop 's a-spinning.
Of that ratio,
we're sitting at 38% as opposed to 31%.
So again, just let this go for
a little bit I'll try to get two rounds.
Again, doing a lot of the perf stuff, you
find yourself doing a lot of waiting and
running.
It's just part of the game because
you want to try to get some
level of, You want to be able to at
least have some confidence moving forward
in the numbers you're looking at.
And I just wanted to have these for
historical reasons.
I think it's really fun to look
back on numbers to see how good or
bad you're doing.
So I'm gonna kill that and we're
gonna do it one more time, except for
I'm gonna put 2000 here.
So I'm gonna run with 2000.
1000 on the server I'm gonna
run with 2000 on the client.
I am making some assumptions that you
guys can follow along you know how to use
your terminal well you know how to
use the browser localhost make sense.
I just wanna make sure it cuz it's it's
difficult to always try to prepare for
every situation at 2000.
Look at that.
This is not looking good at 2000,
yes Mark.
>> Someone's asking if you
could clarify the scale.
>> The scale,
>> Yeah, just like the chart.
>> Yeah so
I'll clarify the chart one more time.
So the chart is very, very simple.
This first one right here is ticks on time
that is 15, 16, or 17 millisecond ticks.
This right here, take overruns are 18 or
more milliseconds meaning a game
loop that took longer than 17
milliseconds is considered an overrun.
A game loop that took less than 15
milliseconds is considered an underrun.
The ratio is simply the addition of
I should have not called it ratio,
I should have called it percent late.
And so that would be 1.185
million on time plus 466,000
over plus 81,000 under on the bottom,
on the denominator.
I'm just normalizing it according,
I'm creating a nice little eigenvector,
if you will, of this guy.
Sky right here and
normalize the value nicely, so it's 31%.
And so when we increased to a 1000,
it went to 36%.
Now that we're at 2000,
which I've probably played a lot of games.
Well, it's not looking fantastic, right?
>> We are looking at
about 62% of the time.
We have values that are over.
And that makes sense cuz it
almost looks like only 1/3 of
the frames are actually on time.
In fact, it looks like we even have we
actually have more frames that are over
running that are actually on time.
If we look at our distribution,
it looks terrible, right?
We have a whole bunch of numbers
pegged at 0, meaning that it took so
long on one side that they just had to try
to run frames as quickly as It's possible
through the system to
try to catch back up.
Which my ticker could have been probably
more smart and not done anything, but
we didn't do that.
We're just, it's a dumb ticker.
It's not well-written.
So there we go.
So I have some nice numbers now.
I have, what does it look like at 500?
What does it look like at a 1000?
What does it look like at 2000?
So exciting, right?
All right, so we have these nice log
files, hopefully you guys have done.
This is kind of like a very
crude stepladder test.
If you don't know what a stepladder is,
all you do is you create a series of tests
to see how does this thing
perform as we increase input.
And that's gonna give you a good
idea as to what your server or
what your program's gonna
do as it gets more complex.
Measuring something at a singular point is
really difficult because you don't really
know how fast it grows.
You don't know what the behavior of the
program is cuz a lot of times you can run
nice for a while and
once you cross some sort of threshold,
then it just like takes off and
becomes really, really bad.
So it's very good to make sure
you do multiple measurements